> Could you please tell me what are the best ways to debug maximal sharing? I guess my problem is that I have very little intuition about when it can break. In your code I see sometimes you use mkApp1/2/3 without applying share on top. In the same time mkAppN always goes with. Does it mean that mkAppN can break sharing and mkApp1/2/3 can't? If so, I am not sure I understand why is it so? And what should be a general intuition about where sharing breaks?


> We don't have a good solution right now. I thought about creating a type ExprS which is just a wrapper for Expr, and using it to statically enforce whether a function expects the expression to be maximally shared or guarantees the output to be maximally shared. It wouldn't fix all the issues and would make things less ergonomic, so I abandoned the idea for now.

We have S functions designed to create maximally shared terms and avoid the share overhead. We also have "internal" functions in Sym.Internal: mkAppS, mkLetS, etc. The caller is responsible for ensuring the input is maximally shared. You can use set_option sym.debug true to check whether these APIs are being misused.

Note that we have two functions in Sym: shareCommon and share. shareCommon is used to bring a big Expr into the Sym world. It uses an extra hashtable to ensure we don't visit a DAG in the input Expr as a tree when converting it into a maximally shared one. The drawback is the cost of creating and populating that hashtable, which can be a significant overhead for incremental calls. Example: suppose we applied some function f that creates a new Expr from maximally shared Exprs, and f is simple: it just assembles the result using a few constructors and does not create a new DAG. In that case, it is wasteful to create the hashtable, and share is the way to go. However, share does not use a hashtable, so the drawback is: if the input expression is a DAG, it may take exponential time processing it.

I think Sym will have very few direct users. Hax and Aeneas will probably build on top of mvcgen. If that's the case, I say we continue as-is and take the bullet ourselves. If we get new users, we will need better APIs, and the ExprS wrapper is probably the way to go.